.TH THECA 1 "2015" theca v1.0\-alpha THECA
.SH NAME
.PP
theca \- minimal cli note taking tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR]
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] <\fB\fCid\fR>
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] add <\fB\fCtitle\fR> [\fB\fC\-s\fR|\fB\fC\-u\fR] [\fB\fC\-b\fR \fIBODY\fP|\fB\fC\-t\fR|\fB\fC\-\fR]
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] edit <\fB\fCid\fR> [<\fB\fCtitle\fR>] [\fB\fC\-s\fR|\fB\fC\-u\fR|\fB\fC\-n\fR] [\fB\fC\-b\fR \fIBODY\fP|\fB\fC\-t\fR|\fB\fC\-\fR]
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] del <\fB\fCid\fR>
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] new\-profile [<\fB\fCname\fR>]
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] info
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] clear
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] search [\fB\fC\-\-regex\fR, \fB\fC\-\-search\-body\fR] <\fB\fCpattern\fR>
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR [\fB\fCoptions\fR] transfer <\fB\fCid\fR> to <\fB\fCname\fR>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR is a minimal command line profile based note taking tool
written in \fB\fCrust\fR that stores profiles using a \fB\fCJSON\fR based file
format.
.SH PROFILE OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-f\fR \fIPATH\fP, \fB\fC\-\-profile\-folder\fR \fIPATH\fP
   Path to folder containing profile.json files, this override
   any \fB\fCTHECA_DEFAULT_PROFILE\fR environment variable.
.PP
\fB\fC\-p\fR \fIPROFILE\fP, \fB\fC\-\-profile\fR \fIPROFILE\fP
   Specify non\-default profile [default can be set with env var 
   \fB\fCTHECA_DEFAULT_PROFILE\fR].
.SH PRINTING OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-c\fR, \fB\fC\-\-condensed\fR
   Use the condensed printing format.
.PP
\fB\fC\-j\fR, \fB\fC\-\-json\fR
   Print list output as a JSON object.
.SH LIST OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-l\fR \fILIMIT\fP, \fB\fC\-\-limit\fR \fILIMIT\fP
   Limit listing to LIMIT items [default: 0].
.PP
\fB\fC\-d\fR, \fB\fC\-\-datesort\fR
   Sort items by date.
.PP
\fB\fC\-r\fR, \fB\fC\-\-reverse\fR
   Reverse list.
.SH INPUT OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-y\fR, \fB\fC\-\-yes\fR
   Silently agree to any [y/n] prompts.
.SH STATUS OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-n\fR, \fB\fC\-\-none\fR
   No status [default].
.PP
\fB\fC\-s\fR, \fB\fC\-\-started\fR
   Started status.
.PP
\fB\fC\-u\fR, \fB\fC\-\-urgent\fR
   Urgent status.
.SH BODY OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-b\fR \fIBODY\fP, \fB\fC\-\-body\fR \fIBODY\fP
   Set body of the item to BODY.
.PP
\fB\fC\-t\fR, \fB\fC\-\-editor\fR
   Drop to \fB\fCEDITOR\fR to set/edit item body.
.PP
\fB\fC\-\fR
   Set body of the item from STDIN.
.SH ENCRYPTION OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-e\fR, \fB\fC\-\-encrypted\fR
   Specifies using an encrypted profile.
.PP
\fB\fC\-k\fR \fIKEY\fP, \fB\fC\-\-key\fR \fIKEY\fP
   Encryption key to use for encryption/decryption, a prompt
   will be displayed if no key is provided.
.SH SEARCH OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-search\-body\fR
   Search the body of notes instead of the title.
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-regex\fR
   Set search pattern to regex (default is plaintext).
.SH MISC OPTIONS
.PP
\fB\fC\-h\fR, \fB\fC\-\-help\fR
   Display this help and exit.
.PP
\fB\fC\-v\fR, \fB\fC\-\-version\fR
   Display the version of theca and exit.
.SH FILES
.PP
*~/.theca/default.json~
   The default profile file that \fB\fCtheca\fR attempts to read.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.PP
\fB\fCTHECA_DEFAULT_PROFILE\fR
   If non\-null the default profile for \fB\fCtheca\fR to read. Overridden by
   the \fB\fC\-p\fR option.
.PP
\fB\fCTHECA_PROFILE_FOLDER\fR
   If non\-null the full path for for the theca profile \fB\fCfolder\fR\&.
   Overridden by the \fB\fC\-f\fR option.
.SH FILE FORMAT
.PP
\fB\fCtheca\fR uses a \fB\fCJSON\fR based file format that adheres to the following
schema.
.PP
   {
    "$schema": "
\[la]https://github.com/rolandshoemaker/theca/blob/master/docs/DESIGN.md\[ra]",
    "id": "/",
    "type": "object",
    "properties": {
      "encrypted": {
        "id": "encrypted",
        "type": "boolean"
      },
      "notes": {
        "id": "notes",
        "type": "array",
        "items": {
          "id": "0",
          "type": "object",
          "properties": {
            "id": {
              "id": "id",
              "type": "integer"
            },
            "title": {
              "id": "title",
              "type": "string"
            },
            "status": {
              "id": "status",
              "type": "string"
            },
            "body": {
              "id": "body",
              "type": "string"
            },
            "last_touched": {
              "id": "last_touched",
              "type": "string"
            }
          },
          "additionalProperties": false,
          "required": [
            "id",
            "title",
            "body",
            "last_touched"
          ]
        },
        "additionalItems": false
      }
    },
    "additionalProperties": false,
    "required": [
      "encrypted",
      "notes"
    ]
   }
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Roland Bracewell Shoemaker 
\[la]rolandshoemaker@gmail.com\[ra]
.SH LICENSE
.PP
theca is licensed under the MIT license 
\[la]http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT\[ra]\&.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR memo (1)
